# normalizing-flows
This repo contains the code used to run a forward modeling lensing analysis on a population of subhalos generated from a normalizing flows algorithm. The code is split into 3 main steps:

1. **Generate a set of Galacticus merger trees**. The file "darkMatterOnlySubHalosPipeline.xml" is the input parameter file that gets read into Galacticus, "dmosh_pipeline.sh" is the job script used to run Galacticus on this parameter file, and "darkMatterOnlySubHalosPipeline.hdf5" is the output file after Galacticus has generated the merger trees. 
2. **Train the emulator on Galacticus data**. The script "normalizing_flows_pipeline.py" reads in the Galacticus data from step 1, and feeds the data into the emulator. "flows_pipeline.sh" is the job file used to run normalizing_flows_pipeline.py.
3. **Perform the forward modeling analysis to generate $S_\text{lens}$ values**. The script "subhalos_inference_pipeline.py" uses the emulator to generate a population of emulated subhalos, and runs it through a forward modeling analysis from the analysis code samana. The .sh file used to run this final step is "inference_pipeline.sh". Currently, the "subhalos_inference_pipeline.py" file is set up to produce $S_\text{lens}$ values from an empirical model. To produce a population of emulated subhalos, in line 140 set the variable 'preset_model_name = DMEmulator' instead of 'preset_model_name = WDM'. Also, uncomment line 152, as this is an extra input that gets read into the kwargs_sample_realization dictionary when running the emulator.

NOTE1: In steps 2 and 3, both files "normalizing_flows_pipeline.py" and "subhalos_inference_pipeline.py" import functions/classes from the script "emulator_pipeline.py". This script contains functions for transforming Galacticus to and from it's normalized coordinates and hypercube coordinates, as well as the code which builds the normalizing flows architecture.

NOTE2: When performing step 3, the code requires certain files of pyHalo which have been modified to incorporate the emulator in the forward modeling analysis. The first file is "pyHalo/preset_models.py", and the second file is "pyHalo/PresetModels/external.py".
